notes/Arrays.MD, before:

| # | Problem  | Description | Source |
| :------ |:---------------| :-----| :-----|
| 1 | [IsUniqueString](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/IsUniqueString.java)  | check if string is unique without using DS |
| 2 | [CheckPermutation](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/CheckPermutation.java) | Return true if two strings are permutations of one other |
| 3 | [URLify](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/URLify.java) | In place replacement of spaces with %20 |
| 4 | [PalindromePermutation](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/PalindromePermutation.java)  | Given a string determine if it's a palindrome | CTCI |
| 5 | [CheckPalindromeNumberNoSpace](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/CheckPalindromeNumberNoSpace.java)  | Check if a number is palindrome without using extra space | Leetcode |
| 6 | [OneAway](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/OneAway.java) | Detect if two strings are 1 edit away from one another |
| 7 | [StringCompression](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/StringCompression.java) | Given a string, compress it to return a string with char and occurence count | CTCI |
| 8 | [StringCompressionArray](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/StringCompressionArray.java) | Given a char, compress it to return in same array string with char and occurence count | Leetcode |
| 9 | [ZeroMatrix](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ZeroMatrix.java) | If an element of matrix is  zero, make the row and column zero|
| 10 | [StringRotation](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/StringRotation.java) | Given two strings check if one is a rotation of another |
| 11 | [ReverseStringAndSentence](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ReverseStringAndSentence.java) | Reverse a string. Reverse a sentence |
| 12 | [TwoSum](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/TwoSum.java)  | determine if sum of two elements in array matches up to a target |
| 13 | [longestSubstringWithoutRepeatingChars](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/LongestSubstringWithoutRepeatingChars.java)  | sliding window - longestSubstringWithoutRepeatingChars |
| 14 | [MaxSumContiguousArray](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/MaxSumContiguousArray.java) | sliding window - max contiguous sum | Leetcode |
| 15 | [MaxSubarray](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/MaxSubarray.java) | largest sum - kadane's algo | Leetcode |
| 16 | [MaxSumMultipleSubarrayCheckSubarray](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/MaxSumMultipleSubarrayCheckSubarray.java) | Given an array and num, return true if there's 2 or more contiguous elements that are multiple of given number | Leetcode |
| 17 | [ContiguousSubarrayWithGivenSum](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ContiguousSubarrayWithGivenSumAndAllPossibleSubarrays.java) | Given an array and num, return any subarray indices that adds to given number | GeeksForGeeks  |
| 18 | [ContiguousSubarrayCountsWithGivenSum](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ContiguousSubarrayCountsWithGivenSum.java) | Given an array and a num, return number of sub arrays that add to given number | Leetcode |
| 19 | [CustomSortArrayEvenOdd](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/CustomSortArrayEvenOdd.java) | given an array sort it into even half and odd half|
| 20 | [CheckAnagram](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/CheckAnagram.java) | check if given two strings are anagrams|
| 21 | [LeftRotateArray](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/LeftRotateArray.java) | LeftRotateArray|
| 22 | [MinimumAbsoluteDifference](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/MinimumAbsoluteDifference.java) | Given an array of distinct integers arr, find all pairs of elements with the minimum absolute difference of any two elements.|
| 23 | [LongestCommonPrefix](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/LongestCommonPrefix.java) | Return longest common prefix string if an array of strings is given | LeetCode | 
| 24 | [RomanToInt](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/RomanToInt.java) | Given a Roman Number, convert it to Int | Leetcode |
| 25 | [ValidParentheses](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ValidParentheses.java) | Given string representing brackets, return if it's valid | Leetcode |
| 26 | [RemoveDuplicatesSortedArray](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/RemoveDuplicatesSortedArray.java) | Remove duplicates from sorted array (use for loop and another variable) | Leetcode |
| 27 | [CheckDuplicates](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/CheckDuplicates.java) | Check if an unsorted array has duplicates | Leetcode |
| 28 | [BestTimeToBuyStock](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/BestTimeToBuyStock.java) | Given array, find max profit | Leetcode |
| 29 | [HappyNumber](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/HappyNumber.java) | Determine if happy number | leetcode |
| 30 | [SingleNumber](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/SingleNumber.java) | Find the number that occurs only once in an array | Leetcode |
| 31 | [MissingRanges](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/MissingRanges.java) | Return missing ranges in given sorted array | Leetcode |
| 32 | [SummaryRanges](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/SummaryRanges.java) | Return ranges in sorted array | Leetcode |
| 33 | [MajorityElement](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/MajorityElement.java) | Return element in array which appears more than half times | Leetcode |
| 34 | [FirstUniqueCharacterInString](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/FirstUniqueCharacterInString.java) | In a string first non repeating character | Leetcode 
| 35 | [IndexOfStr](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/IndexOfStr.java) | Return first index of occurrence, -1 not found, 0 if empty | Leetcode |  
| 36 | [MoveZeroes](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/MoveZeroes.java) | Move Zeroes to end of the array | Leetcode | 
| 37 | [ClimbingStairsFibonacci](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ClimbingStairsFibonacci.java) | Number of ways to climb N stairs with 1 or 2 steps at a time  | Leetcode |
| 38 | [ConvertLettersToNumbersLikeExcel](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ConvertLettersToNumbersLikeExcel.java) | Convert Excel column names like AA, AB to numbers. (hint 26 power) | Leetcode |
| 39 | [MissingNumber](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/MissingNumber.java) | Given an array of numbers in a range, give missing number | Leetcode |
| 40 | [PlusOne](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/PlusOne.java) | Given number represented by array, add 1 to it | Leetcode |
| 41 | [SegregateOddEven](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/SegregateOddEven.java) | Segregate Odd and Even elements in an array | Leetcode |
| 42 | [SpiralMatrix](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/SpiralMatrix.java) | Given a matrix, return/print it in spiral form | Leetcode |
| 43 | [ArrayIntersection](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ArrayIntersection.java) | Return array intersection of 2 arrays | Leetcode |
| 44 | [ArrayIntersectionExactCount](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ArrayIntersectionExactCount.java) | Return array intersection of 2 arrays , elements as many times as in the array | Leetcode |
| 45 | [ArrayUnion](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ArrayUnion.java) | Find union of arrays | Leetcode |
| 46 | [MergeIntervals](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/MergeIntervals.java) | Given array of intervals, merge overlapping intervals | Leetcode |
| 47 | [RotateMatrix](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/RotateMatrix.java) | Given a 2D matrix clockwise and anticlockwise IN-PLACE |
| 48 | [ProductOfArrayExceptSelf](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ProductOfArrayExceptSelf.java) | Given a nums array, return array of multiplied result except element at each point | Leetcode |
| 49 | [AmazingStrings](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/AmazingStrings.java) | Given a string determine number of swaps needed to make it amazing | 2017 |
| 50 | [IsomorphicStrings](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/IsomorphicStrings.java) | Determine if two strings are isomorphic. Meaning if you swap characters in one, it can result in another string | Leetcode |
| 51 | [FindMinInRotatedSortedArray](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/FindMinInRotatedSortedArray.java) | Find min in a rotated sorted array in O(log n) time | Leetcode |
| 52 | [ThreeSum](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ThreeSum.java) | ThreeSum - extension of 2sum | Leetcode |
| 53 | [TwoSumSorted](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/TwoSumSorted.java) | TwoSum problem where given array is  | Leetcode |
| 54 | [TwoSumLessThanK](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/TwoSumLessThanK.java) | find two nums less than k | Leetcode |
| 55 | [KthLargestElementInArray](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/KthLargestElementInArray.java) | Return Kth largest element from unsorted array | Leetcode |
| 56 | [NLowestElementsInTwoSortedArrays](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/NLowestElementsInTwoSortedArrays.java) | Given two sorted arrays, return n sorted elements  | Misc |
| 57 | [xx](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/xx.java) | xx | xx |
| 58 | [xx](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/xx.java) | xx | xx |
| 59 | [xx](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/xx.java) | xx | xx |
| 60 | [xx](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/xx.java) | xx | xx |
| 61 | [xx](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/xx.java) | xx | xx |
| 62 | [xx](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/xx.java) | xx | xx |
| 63 | [xx](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/xx.java) | xx | xx |
| 64 | [LetterCombinationsOfPhoneNumber](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/LetterCombinationsOfPhoneNumber.java) | Backtracking - Given string containing digits, return all possible letter combinations that number could represent | Leetcode |
| 65 | [N Queens Placement Problem](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/NQueensPlacementBackTracking.java) | TODO | xx |


## Notes
### Iterating a hashmap
- For keys and values  (.entrySet => entry.getKey, entry.getValue)
```java
    Map<String, Integer> itemMap = new HashMap<>();
    itemMap.forEach((key, value) => {
        System.out.println(key + " " + value);
    })
```

- Using entrySet (for )
IMP: Make sure you write `.entrySet` otherwise we won't get iterator
```java
for (Map.Entry<String, Integer> entry: itemMap.entrySet()) {
     System.out.println(entry.getKey() + " " + entry.getValue);
}
```

- For keys (.keyset)
```java
for (String key: hashMap.keySet()) {
      System.out.println(entry.getKey() + " " + key);
}
```

- For values
```java

for (Integer value: hashMap.values()) {
    sysout(entry.getKey() + " " + value);
}

```

### Iterate array list
```java
    List<Integer> arrayList = new ArrayList<>();
    arrayList.add(1);arrayList.add(2);arrayList.add(3);
```
#### With Iterator
```java
    Iterator it = arrayList.iterator();
    while(it.hasNext()) {
        System.out.println(it.next());
    } 
```
#### With for each loop
```java
    for(Integer i: arrayList) {
        System.out.println(i);
    } 
```
#### With for loop
Same thing can be done with while loop
```java
    for(int i=0; i<arrayList.size(); i++) {
        System.out.println(arrayList.get(i));
    } 
```
### Iterate hashset
```java
    HashSet<Integer> hs = new HashSet<>();
    hs.add(1);hs.add(2);hs.add(3);
```
#### With iterator
```java
    Iterator<Integer> it = hs.iterator();
    while(it.hasNext()) {
        System.out.println(it.next());
    }
```
#### With for-each loop 
```java
    hs.forEach(System.out::println);
```
#### With for loop
```java
     for (Integer curr: hs) {
        System.out.println(curr);
    }
```
## Sliding window
### [MaxSumContiguousArray](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/MaxSumContiguousArray.java)
### [LongestSubstringWithoutRepeatingChars](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/LongestSubstringWithoutRepeatingChars.java)
More sliding window problems - https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tag/sliding-window/

```java
[a b c d e f g h]
```

Sliding window of size 3
```java
[a b c]
  [b c d]
    [c d e]
      [d e f]
        [e f g]
          [f g h]
```

- eg 1: find number of elements needed to give a largest sum of 5 consecutive elements
- Given array
```java
[ 5, 7, 1, 4, 3, 6, 2, 9, 2 ]

```
- Possible sliding windows
- Here rather than computing all possibilities, we slide our window
- To proceed one step ahead, we delete the first most element and add the new element
- imagine a window of length N, and sliding pane of length K, while we move 1 increment forward, we compute the elements in 
   each pane accordingly.
```java
[5, 7, 1, 4, 3] = 20
[ 7, 1, 4, 3, 6] = 21
[1, 4, 3, 6, 2]=16
[4, 3, 6, 2, 9]=24
[ 3, 6, 2, 9, 2]=22
```
## Notes
- For rotating an array (transpose + vertical flip)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19309898/127751865-418eff9f-0a88-4527-89bd-9bdfc5ad4e51.png)

## Sorting a 2D array
comparing integers
```java
        System.out.println(Integer.compare(1, 2)); // -1
        System.out.println(Integer.compare(2, 1)); // 1
```
```java
    Arrays.sort(arr, new Comparator<int[]>() {
           @Override
           public int compare(int[] o1, int[] o2) {
               if (o1[0] > o2[0]) {
                   return 1;
               } else {
                   return -1;
               }
           }
   });
```

If the array only has 2 elements
```java
    Arrays.sort(intervals, (a, b) -> 
         Integer.compare(a[0], b[0])
     );
```


### Convert list to array
```java
    public static int[] convertLinkedListToArray(ArrayList<Integer> list) {
        return list.toArray(new int[]);
    }

   // convert list of integers to array
    LinkedList<int[]> linkedListofInt = new ArrayList<>();
    linkedListOfInt.toArray(new int[linkedListofInt.size()][]);
```

Commit message:

buy and sell stock - different days

notes/Arrays.MD, after:

| # | Problem  | Description | Source |
| :------ |:---------------| :-----| :-----|
| 1 | [IsUniqueString](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/IsUniqueString.java)  | check if string is unique without using DS |
| 2 | [CheckPermutation](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/CheckPermutation.java) | Return true if two strings are permutations of one other |
| 3 | [URLify](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/URLify.java) | In place replacement of spaces with %20 |
| 4 | [PalindromePermutation](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/PalindromePermutation.java)  | Given a string determine if it's a palindrome | CTCI |
| 5 | [CheckPalindromeNumberNoSpace](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/CheckPalindromeNumberNoSpace.java)  | Check if a number is palindrome without using extra space | Leetcode |
| 6 | [OneAway](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/OneAway.java) | Detect if two strings are 1 edit away from one another |
| 7 | [StringCompression](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/StringCompression.java) | Given a string, compress it to return a string with char and occurence count | CTCI |
| 8 | [StringCompressionArray](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/StringCompressionArray.java) | Given a char, compress it to return in same array string with char and occurence count | Leetcode |
| 9 | [ZeroMatrix](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ZeroMatrix.java) | If an element of matrix is  zero, make the row and column zero|
| 10 | [StringRotation](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/StringRotation.java) | Given two strings check if one is a rotation of another |
| 11 | [ReverseStringAndSentence](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ReverseStringAndSentence.java) | Reverse a string. Reverse a sentence |
| 12 | [TwoSum](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/TwoSum.java)  | determine if sum of two elements in array matches up to a target |
| 13 | [longestSubstringWithoutRepeatingChars](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/LongestSubstringWithoutRepeatingChars.java)  | sliding window - longestSubstringWithoutRepeatingChars |
| 14 | [MaxSumContiguousArray](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/MaxSumContiguousArray.java) | sliding window - max contiguous sum | Leetcode |
| 15 | [MaxSubarray](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/MaxSubarray.java) | largest sum - kadane's algo | Leetcode |
| 16 | [MaxSumMultipleSubarrayCheckSubarray](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/MaxSumMultipleSubarrayCheckSubarray.java) | Given an array and num, return true if there's 2 or more contiguous elements that are multiple of given number | Leetcode |
| 17 | [ContiguousSubarrayWithGivenSum](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ContiguousSubarrayWithGivenSumAndAllPossibleSubarrays.java) | Given an array and num, return any subarray indices that adds to given number | GeeksForGeeks  |
| 18 | [ContiguousSubarrayCountsWithGivenSum](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ContiguousSubarrayCountsWithGivenSum.java) | Given an array and a num, return number of sub arrays that add to given number | Leetcode |
| 19 | [CustomSortArrayEvenOdd](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/CustomSortArrayEvenOdd.java) | given an array sort it into even half and odd half|
| 20 | [CheckAnagram](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/CheckAnagram.java) | check if given two strings are anagrams|
| 21 | [LeftRotateArray](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/LeftRotateArray.java) | LeftRotateArray|
| 22 | [MinimumAbsoluteDifference](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/MinimumAbsoluteDifference.java) | Given an array of distinct integers arr, find all pairs of elements with the minimum absolute difference of any two elements.|
| 23 | [LongestCommonPrefix](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/LongestCommonPrefix.java) | Return longest common prefix string if an array of strings is given | LeetCode | 
| 24 | [RomanToInt](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/RomanToInt.java) | Given a Roman Number, convert it to Int | Leetcode |
| 25 | [ValidParentheses](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ValidParentheses.java) | Given string representing brackets, return if it's valid | Leetcode |
| 26 | [RemoveDuplicatesSortedArray](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/RemoveDuplicatesSortedArray.java) | Remove duplicates from sorted array (use for loop and another variable) | Leetcode |
| 27 | [CheckDuplicates](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/CheckDuplicates.java) | Check if an unsorted array has duplicates | Leetcode |
| 28 | [BestTimeToBuyStock](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/BestTimeToBuyStock.java) | Given array, find max profit | Leetcode |
| 29 | [HappyNumber](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/HappyNumber.java) | Determine if happy number | leetcode |
| 30 | [SingleNumber](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/SingleNumber.java) | Find the number that occurs only once in an array | Leetcode |
| 31 | [MissingRanges](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/MissingRanges.java) | Return missing ranges in given sorted array | Leetcode |
| 32 | [SummaryRanges](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/SummaryRanges.java) | Return ranges in sorted array | Leetcode |
| 33 | [MajorityElement](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/MajorityElement.java) | Return element in array which appears more than half times | Leetcode |
| 34 | [FirstUniqueCharacterInString](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/FirstUniqueCharacterInString.java) | In a string first non repeating character | Leetcode 
| 35 | [IndexOfStr](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/IndexOfStr.java) | Return first index of occurrence, -1 not found, 0 if empty | Leetcode |  
| 36 | [MoveZeroes](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/MoveZeroes.java) | Move Zeroes to end of the array | Leetcode | 
| 37 | [ClimbingStairsFibonacci](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ClimbingStairsFibonacci.java) | Number of ways to climb N stairs with 1 or 2 steps at a time  | Leetcode |
| 38 | [ConvertLettersToNumbersLikeExcel](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ConvertLettersToNumbersLikeExcel.java) | Convert Excel column names like AA, AB to numbers. (hint 26 power) | Leetcode |
| 39 | [MissingNumber](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/MissingNumber.java) | Given an array of numbers in a range, give missing number | Leetcode |
| 40 | [PlusOne](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/PlusOne.java) | Given number represented by array, add 1 to it | Leetcode |
| 41 | [SegregateOddEven](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/SegregateOddEven.java) | Segregate Odd and Even elements in an array | Leetcode |
| 42 | [SpiralMatrix](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/SpiralMatrix.java) | Given a matrix, return/print it in spiral form | Leetcode |
| 43 | [ArrayIntersection](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ArrayIntersection.java) | Return array intersection of 2 arrays | Leetcode |
| 44 | [ArrayIntersectionExactCount](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ArrayIntersectionExactCount.java) | Return array intersection of 2 arrays , elements as many times as in the array | Leetcode |
| 45 | [ArrayUnion](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ArrayUnion.java) | Find union of arrays | Leetcode |
| 46 | [MergeIntervals](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/MergeIntervals.java) | Given array of intervals, merge overlapping intervals | Leetcode |
| 47 | [RotateMatrix](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/RotateMatrix.java) | Given a 2D matrix clockwise and anticlockwise IN-PLACE |
| 48 | [ProductOfArrayExceptSelf](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ProductOfArrayExceptSelf.java) | Given a nums array, return array of multiplied result except element at each point | Leetcode |
| 49 | [AmazingStrings](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/AmazingStrings.java) | Given a string determine number of swaps needed to make it amazing | 2017 |
| 50 | [IsomorphicStrings](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/IsomorphicStrings.java) | Determine if two strings are isomorphic. Meaning if you swap characters in one, it can result in another string | Leetcode |
| 51 | [FindMinInRotatedSortedArray](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/FindMinInRotatedSortedArray.java) | Find min in a rotated sorted array in O(log n) time | Leetcode |
| 52 | [ThreeSum](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/ThreeSum.java) | ThreeSum - extension of 2sum | Leetcode |
| 53 | [TwoSumSorted](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/TwoSumSorted.java) | TwoSum problem where given array is  | Leetcode |
| 54 | [TwoSumLessThanK](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/TwoSumLessThanK.java) | find two nums less than k | Leetcode |
| 55 | [KthLargestElementInArray](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/KthLargestElementInArray.java) | Return Kth largest element from unsorted array | Leetcode |
| 56 | [NLowestElementsInTwoSortedArrays](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/NLowestElementsInTwoSortedArrays.java) | Given two sorted arrays, return n sorted elements  | Misc |
| 57 | [BestTimeToBuyAndSellStockII](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/BestTimeToBuyAndSellStockII.java) | Given array of prices - find max profit if you can buy and sell stocks on different days | Leetcode |
| 58 | [xx](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/xx.java) | xx | xx |
| 59 | [xx](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/xx.java) | xx | xx |
| 60 | [xx](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/xx.java) | xx | xx |
| 61 | [xx](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/xx.java) | xx | xx |
| 62 | [xx](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/xx.java) | xx | xx |
| 63 | [xx](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/xx.java) | xx | xx |
| 64 | [LetterCombinationsOfPhoneNumber](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/LetterCombinationsOfPhoneNumber.java) | Backtracking - Given string containing digits, return all possible letter combinations that number could represent | Leetcode |
| 65 | [N Queens Placement Problem](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/NQueensPlacementBackTracking.java) | TODO | xx |


## Notes
### Iterating a hashmap
- For keys and values  (.entrySet => entry.getKey, entry.getValue)
```java
    Map<String, Integer> itemMap = new HashMap<>();
    itemMap.forEach((key, value) => {
        System.out.println(key + " " + value);
    })
```

- Using entrySet (for )
IMP: Make sure you write `.entrySet` otherwise we won't get iterator
```java
for (Map.Entry<String, Integer> entry: itemMap.entrySet()) {
     System.out.println(entry.getKey() + " " + entry.getValue);
}
```

- For keys (.keyset)
```java
for (String key: hashMap.keySet()) {
      System.out.println(entry.getKey() + " " + key);
}
```

- For values
```java

for (Integer value: hashMap.values()) {
    sysout(entry.getKey() + " " + value);
}

```

### Iterate array list
```java
    List<Integer> arrayList = new ArrayList<>();
    arrayList.add(1);arrayList.add(2);arrayList.add(3);
```
#### With Iterator
```java
    Iterator it = arrayList.iterator();
    while(it.hasNext()) {
        System.out.println(it.next());
    } 
```
#### With for each loop
```java
    for(Integer i: arrayList) {
        System.out.println(i);
    } 
```
#### With for loop
Same thing can be done with while loop
```java
    for(int i=0; i<arrayList.size(); i++) {
        System.out.println(arrayList.get(i));
    } 
```
### Iterate hashset
```java
    HashSet<Integer> hs = new HashSet<>();
    hs.add(1);hs.add(2);hs.add(3);
```
#### With iterator
```java
    Iterator<Integer> it = hs.iterator();
    while(it.hasNext()) {
        System.out.println(it.next());
    }
```
#### With for-each loop 
```java
    hs.forEach(System.out::println);
```
#### With for loop
```java
     for (Integer curr: hs) {
        System.out.println(curr);
    }
```
## Sliding window
### [MaxSumContiguousArray](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/MaxSumContiguousArray.java)
### [LongestSubstringWithoutRepeatingChars](../src/main/java/arraysAndStrings/LongestSubstringWithoutRepeatingChars.java)
More sliding window problems - https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tag/sliding-window/

```java
[a b c d e f g h]
```

Sliding window of size 3
```java
[a b c]
  [b c d]
    [c d e]
      [d e f]
        [e f g]
          [f g h]
```

- eg 1: find number of elements needed to give a largest sum of 5 consecutive elements
- Given array
```java
[ 5, 7, 1, 4, 3, 6, 2, 9, 2 ]

```
- Possible sliding windows
- Here rather than computing all possibilities, we slide our window
- To proceed one step ahead, we delete the first most element and add the new element
- imagine a window of length N, and sliding pane of length K, while we move 1 increment forward, we compute the elements in 
   each pane accordingly.
```java
[5, 7, 1, 4, 3] = 20
[ 7, 1, 4, 3, 6] = 21
[1, 4, 3, 6, 2]=16
[4, 3, 6, 2, 9]=24
[ 3, 6, 2, 9, 2]=22
```
## Notes
- For rotating an array (transpose + vertical flip)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19309898/127751865-418eff9f-0a88-4527-89bd-9bdfc5ad4e51.png)

## Sorting a 2D array
comparing integers
```java
        System.out.println(Integer.compare(1, 2)); // -1
        System.out.println(Integer.compare(2, 1)); // 1
```
```java
    Arrays.sort(arr, new Comparator<int[]>() {
           @Override
           public int compare(int[] o1, int[] o2) {
               if (o1[0] > o2[0]) {
                   return 1;
               } else {
                   return -1;
               }
           }
   });
```

If the array only has 2 elements
```java
    Arrays.sort(intervals, (a, b) -> 
         Integer.compare(a[0], b[0])
     );
```


### Convert list to array
```java
    public static int[] convertLinkedListToArray(ArrayList<Integer> list) {
        return list.toArray(new int[]);
    }

   // convert list of integers to array
    LinkedList<int[]> linkedListofInt = new ArrayList<>();
    linkedListOfInt.toArray(new int[linkedListofInt.size()][]);
```
